---
title: Introduction
description: 'Build and customize accessible UI components for your design system.'
head:
  title: 'Oku Primitives'
  description: 'Unstyled, accessible components for building high‑quality design systems and web apps in React.Unstyled, accessible components for building high‑quality design systems and web apps in Vue.'
---

# Introduction

With Oku, you get a wide range of features that can be easily integrated into your projects, including unstyled, accessible UI components, state management solutions, API integrations, and much more.


Oku Primitives is a low-level UI component library with a focus on accessibility, customization and developer experience. You can use these components either as the base layer of your design system, or adopt them incrementally.

## Acknowledgement

A big thank you to the developers of [Radix Primitives](https://www.radix-ui.com/). Their amazing work made it possible for me to create this port to Vue 3 - without them there is no Oku Primitives.


## Vision

Most of us share similar definitions for common UI patterns like accordion, checkbox,
combobox, dialog, dropdown, select, slider, and tooltip. These UI patterns are [documented by WAI-ARIA](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#aria_ex) and generally understood by the community.

However, the implementations provided to us by the web platform are inadequate. They're
either non-existent, lacking in functionality, or cannot be customized sufficiently.

So, developers are forced to build custom components; an incredibly difficult task. As a
result, most components on the web are inaccessible, non-performant, and lacking important
features.

Our goal is to create a well-funded, open-source component library that the community can
use to build accessible design systems.

## Key Features

### Accessible

Components adhere to the [WAI-ARIA design patterns](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2) where possible. We handle many of the difficult implementation details related to accessibility, including aria and role attributes, focus management, and keyboard navigation. Learn more in our [accessibility](/docs/primitives/overview/accessibility) overview.

### Unstyled

Components ship with zero styles, giving you complete control over styling. Components can be styled with any styling solution (vanilla CSS, CSS preprocessors, CSS-in-JS libraries). Learn more in our [styling](./styling) guide.

### Opened

Radix Primitives are designed to be customized to suit your needs. Our open component architecture provides you granular access to each component part, so you can wrap them and add your own event listeners, props, or refs.

### Uncontrolled

Where applicable, components are uncontrolled by default but can also be controlled, alternatively. All of the behavior wiring is handled internally, so you can get up and running as smoothly as possible, without needing to create any local states.

### Developer experience

One of our main goals is to provide the best possible developer experience. Oku Primitives provides a fully-typed API. All components share a similar API, creating a consistent and predictable experience. We've also implemented an `asChild` prop, giving users full control over the rendered element.

### Incremental adoption

Each primitive can be installed individually so you can adopt them incrementally.

::custom-link
---
items:
  - title: 'Installation'
    icon: 'i-ph-hammer-bold'
    to: '/primitives/getting-started/installation'
    description: 'Learn how to install Primitives in your project.'
  - title: 'Nuxt Module'
    icon: 'i-ph-hammer-bold'
    to: '/primitives/getting-started/nuxt-module'
    description: 'Learn how to install Primitives in your Nuxt project.'

---
::

## Components

The following components are available:

::custom-link
---
items:
  - title: 'Accordion'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/accordion'
    description: 'A vertical stack of interactive headings used to toggle the visibility of their associated content.'
  - title: 'Alert Dialog'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/alert-dialog'
    description: 'A modal dialog that interrupts the user’s workflow to communicate an important message and acquire a response.'
  - title: 'AspectRatio'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/aspect-ratio'
    description: 'Displays content within a desired ratio.'
  - title: 'Avatar'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/avatar'
    description: 'An image element with a fallback for representing the user.'
  - title: 'Checkbox'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/checkbox'
    description: 'Renders an accessible checkbox associated with controls.'
  - title: 'Collapsible'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/collapsible'
    description: 'An interactive component which expands/collapses a panel.'
  - title: 'Dialog'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/dialog'
    description: 'A window overlaid on either the primary window or another dialog window, rendering the content underneath inert.'
  - title: 'HoverCard'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/hover-card'
    description: 'For sighted users to preview content available behind a link.'
  - title: 'Label'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/label'
    description: 'Renders an accessible label associated with controls.'
  - title: 'Popover'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/popover'
    description: 'A non-modal dialog that floats around a trigger element.'
  - title: 'Progress'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/progress'
    description: 'Displays an indicator showing the completion progress of a task, typically displayed as a progress bar.'
  - title: 'RadioGroup'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/radio-group'
    description: 'A set of checkable buttons—known as radio buttons—where no more than one of the buttons can be checked at a time.'
  - title: 'Scroll Area'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/scroll-area'
    description: 'A scrollable area with hidden scrollbars.'
  - title: 'Separator'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/separator'
    description: 'Visually or semantically separates content.'
  - title: 'Slider'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/slider'
    description: 'An input where the user selects a value from within a given range.'
  - title: 'Switch'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/switch'
    description: 'A control that allows the user to toggle between checked and not checked.'
  - title: 'Tabs'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/tabs'
    description: 'A set of layered sections of content—known as tab panels—that are displayed one at a time.'
  - title: 'Toast'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/toast'
    description: 'A non-modal dialog that floats around a trigger element.'
  - title: 'ToggleGroup'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/toggle-group'
    description: 'A set of two-state buttons that can be toggled on or off.'
  - title: 'Toggle'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/toggle'
    description: 'A two-state button that can be either on or off.'
  - title: 'Toolbar'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/toolbar'
    description: 'A container for grouping a set of controls, such as buttons, toggle groups or dropdown menus.'
  - title: 'Tooltip'
    icon: 'i-ph-file-code-bold'
    to: '/primitives/components/tooltip'
    description: 'A popup that displays information related to an element when the element receives keyboard focus or the mouse hovers over it.'
---
::

## Features

- Supports Tailwind CSS
- First-class support for Nuxt 3
- First-class support for Vue 3
- Fully typed
- Volar support

## Credits

- [Radix Primitives](https://radix-ui.com/)
- [Daniel Roe](https://github.com/danielroe)
- [Johnson Chu](https://github.com/johnsoncodehk)
- [Headless UI](https://headlessui.com/)
- [Element Plus](https://github.com/element-plus/element-plus)
- [Skirtle](https://github.com/skirtles-code)
- [Jacek Karczmarczyk](https://github.com/jacekkarczmarczyk)

## Community

### Discord

To get involved with the Oku community, ask questions, and share tips, join our Discord.

[Join our Discord](https://chat.productdevbook.com)

### Twitter

To receive updates on new primitives, announcements, blog posts, and general Oku tips, follow along on Twitter.

[Follow Oku on Twitter](https://twitter.com/oku_ui)

### GitHub

To file issues, request features, and contribute, check out our GitHub.

[GitHub repo](https://github.com/oku-ui/primitives)

[Code of conduct](https://github.com/oku-ui/primitives/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)